feat: Experiment Center (#1332)
auth0/docs-v2: main/docs/customize/experiment-center/integrations/actions-integration-guide.mdx

---

> title: "Experiment Center and Auth0 Actions Integration"

Reviewer: general comment: since we're in the Auth0 documentation, I don't think you need to preface anything with Auth0 i.e. "Auth0 Actions Integration" or "Auth0 Universal Login"

Author: Ok

description: "How to read experiment context in Auth0 Actions and branch logic based on the assigned variation."
sidebarTitle: Actions Integration
---

import { ReleaseStageNotice } from "/snippets/ReleaseStageNotice.jsx"

<ReleaseStageNotice
    feature="Auth0 Experiment Center"
    stage="beta"
    terms="true"
    contact="Auth0 Support"
/>

When an experiment is active, the Experiment Center injects the `ExperimentContext` object into supported Action triggers.

<Warning>
During Beta, Experiment Center runs on development tenants only. Production tenants are not supported.
</Warning>

## Supported triggers

> Experiment context is available for Auth0 [Actions](/docs/customize/actions/actions-overview) with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiment context is available for the following Auth0 [Actions](/docs/customize/actions/actions-overview):
```

  if (enrollInNewProgram === true) {
    await fetch("https://your-backend.example.com/api/enrollment", {
      method: "POST",
      headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
      body: JSON.stringify({
        user_id: event.user.user_id,
        email: event.user.email,
        experiment_id: ec.experiment_id,
        variation_id: ec.variation_id,
      }),
    });
  }
};
```

Only users in the treatment variation trigger the enrollment webhook. Control users follow the standard post-registration path.

## Use is_control

The parameter `is_control` is `true` when the user is in the control group (they received the baseline, no overrides applied). Use it when you need to track which users saw the unmodified experience, or when you want to skip optional processing for control users.

```javascript
exports.onExecutePostLogin = async (event, api) => {
  const ec = event.experiment;
  if (!ec) return;

  if (!ec.is_control) {
    // Only track treatment users in your analytics system
    // (control users are tracked separately, outside the Action)
    await logTreatmentEvent(ec.experiment_id, ec.variation_id, event.user.user_id);
  }
};
```

> For branching on behavior (not analytics), prefer checking `config` parameter values directly. They are more explicit and readable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For branching on behavior (not analytics), check `config` parameter values directly. They are more explicit and readable.
```
